---
layout: post
title: '12 Peace of Mind'
date: 2017-11-27
image: "/img/justin-shuler.jpg"
---

Why do we do what we do? Why have we done what we've done only to arrive at the place we are in this very moment? The answer to these questions surely depends on the perspective you are coming from, but in perhaps the truest sense and from what I can collect in the process of observing myself, everything we do, and I mean absolutely everything that we do in life, comes down to the way in which we want to feel. It comes down to generating the emotions from the experiences we seek, and the behaviors we thus act upon. 
And so most of us seek pleasure and avoid pain, just as all animals have an inclination to do. Yet, have we ever taken a moment to ask ourselves if this is what really want? Or better yet what else we could have? Because if we took a moment to look at the nature of how we feel, the nature of the sensations we are so driven by, we would begin to notice that when we chase the highs, they in turn, lead us to the lows, and if not immediately, then eventually. And on the other side of the things we enjoy is the desire for more, and once that is created we are no longer present and content with how things simply are. And in this way, we need to keep stimulating ourselves not unlike an addict, just to avoid those pits of being. Just to avoid feeling a bit of what scares us most. We use food. We use sex. We use drugs. We use entertainment. We use manipulation. We use material possessions. We use anything we can to not deal with the emotional recoil set forth. And no, these pits of being aren't always profound and I am not trying to portray some sort of sob story. Most of the time things are very subtle yet these add up and in either case we always, at some point, have to face the deepest, most troubling aspects of ourselves. And so, where does that leave us? To develop and abide in a level of tranquility; to attain some peace of mind in this tide of emotional drift, is thus the solution.
But what exactly is that, what is peace of mind? Beyond just the positive connotation? It could be said to be the place in between the extremes of elation and despair; a state of being grounded and balanced in one's experience. And though peace of mind is similar to a subtle contentment, it's more neutral with the ability to look objectively at things and merely observe. To remain composed and calm in the midst of change and struggle; the balancing of the emotional ebb and flow we get to endure. And so, this doesn't exactly mean that we are trying to try and get rid of sorrow or joy, this is more akin to a leveling out or perhaps even an understanding that allows us to bear more, so that we are confident with our ability to manage and navigate life and its discontents more effectively.
Because isn't that what we all want?  Just about all of the success, and more specifically fulfillment, we want in life will come down to the level of emotional labor we are prepared to endure, to the amount of sincerity and effort we put forth towards what it is that we love and work towards. Whatever it is that you want or have to do in front of you, it takes time, it takes effort and as such will require your emotional where with all to accomplish, especially if you have something that you don't particularly want to do or are scared to do. And so, imagine the ability to face all that with confidence, with the balance needed to remain creative, trusting, grateful, and productively pensive. Even just to have the big picture of what it is that you are going for and stick with the process. 
Because all too often we are overcome with the exact opposite of these things. We get hostile, overwhelmed, and confused. We react fearfully and submit to our own shortcomings or insecurities which we then proceed to cover with anger, shame, and judgment. And so how are we to make effective, long-term decisions, how are we going to take the less traveled road towards something meaningful and more promising when we are overwhelmed and lost in the appearance of things. How many of us know what it's like to think in terms of black and white; all or nothing without considering the ambiguity of a situation? How many of us overgeneralize and stereotype other people and circumstances? Throwing labels and moralizing based on how we feel, vs. how things actually are. We have a tendency to focus only on the negative to the exclusion of the positive, leading us to squander our time and rehearse the worst-case scenario over and over in our heads. We suffer so much, we lose our shit so often because we hold delusional beliefs about what we can and can't control, and what is worth valuing.  Even if we could read people's mind and really know who we are in their eyes, we still wouldn't be able to control their perception of us. It's outside of our control, it's a lost cause, and thus it isn't worth our time. A big part of this process of growth is letting go and doing what you can to take ownership of your own life and your own experience. Something which is much easier said than done, at least in the beginning.
And so, peace of mind is like a still pond. If we are seeking out certain things and avoiding others, if we are stirring the waves in one direction and away from another, the waters are disturbed. If we are moving about and excessively toiling with our experience, the waves are too choppy to see through, to see down into the depths of the pond: our mind and thus our life. 
In addition to this, and to make things even worse we never give the waters a chance to settle and we completely lose sight that there was anything of value, or anything that needed to be addressed beneath the surface. We become completely oblivious and may even criticize others who claim there is something there in need of our attention. And so in this moment, can you notice that within yourself. As I speak, are you defensive? Do I not have a clue about you and your life? At the level of detail, you would be correct, but from a meta perspective, a perspective that looks at the big picture of the human condition, the truth is that some point, sooner than later, shit will hit the fan. And not just for you, but for everyone. No one gets out of this thing alive, and no one gets out of it without at least a few existential break downs (if they did than that wouldn't necessarily be a life worth living). 
And so at some point, you will get tired of distracting yourself and you will see that much of your time is spent avoiding some sort of decision, trauma, or sense of deficiency that you hold. This is the case for all of us.  And in this way, by not recognizing or knowing ourselves, our reality is even more incomplete than we could have ever imagined. It should go without saying that this leads to a host of problems, one of which being the inability to empathetically relate to, and care about, other people and beings because we are too preoccupied with ourselves, our immediate needs, and our own perceived problems. I speak of this from experience, and unless you have spent a great deal of time and energy working on yourself, you too are almost certainly in the same boat.
And so, to probe down into the depths of our psyche, and to get to the root of things in a sustainable, lasting manner, we must sit with a clear intention and wait for the waters to still on their own. Just as a pond is completely subject to the conditions within and around it, so are our minds. To let things rise and purge, we must wait patiently without grasping or running away, and furthermore know our reason for doing so; what it is that keeps us determined to stick through thick and thin.
This is where the role of meditation, a truly foundational step, comes in if we are to gain some tranquility. Mindfulness meditation, in particular, paying attention to your present experience without judgment, is a vital tool here. This is the process of letting the waters and storm of our mind come to a still and if you attend a Vipassana Course or other silent retreat, you'll find that many things you weren't aware of rise to the surface when nothing is there to keep them down. To sit and do virtually nothing, to let things pass without being prodded to come on again. If we are to grow beyond and integrate whatever wisdom lies at the core of our struggle, we must be present with whatever it has to show us; as true peace of mind lies on the other side. So sitting, focusing on your breath, and attentively scanning the impermanent sensations that make up your body and emotions may seem like simple practices, yet they are far more difficult than they seem and the insight gained from such consistent and ardent practice is invaluable. 
Because as I said in the beginning, we are in an environment we weren't designed for. The modern world, with its large population and advanced technology, is a very new thing from an evolutionary perspective. And from this we are so unnaturally stimulated 24/7; always with someone or some company trying to catch our attention. And so to address ourselves head on, in a manner like meditation, is not only difficult in this environment, it is downright unrealistic. Because when I'm overwhelmed or stressed, when I'm too caught up in my thoughts and stories to even distinguish appearance from direct experience, I find that a supplemental practice in addition to meditation, can make all the difference. And in this situation, when the waves of our experience are far too chaotic, taking some time to consider and question our state of mind with a more active form of written mindful inquiry can begin the process of settling down.
This involves answering a series of fairly simple series of questions but speaking from my own experience, that doesn't make them an easier do. It is a gradual process of identifying the situation that supposedly upset your peace of mind and becoming aware of the resulting emotions and thoughts you have experienced as a result. Figuring out how they correspond to each other, trying to notice how and where you qualitatively feel them in your body, and figuring out the beliefs sitting behind your thoughts. Then through a course of questioning your behaviors and beliefs, you should come to a place of ownership, and from there you get to decide how you want to respond and feel as a result. 
I'm not going into it too much here because there is a downloadable worksheet for this episode in the description below. But I will say that if we are to make any change, the first step starts with the acceptance and acknowledgment of our present condition. "Maybe I don't like it, maybe I feel like absolute shit, but this is where I am, and until I acknowledge that, I can't move forward. I can't move onto the next step when I deny where I am currently." So, the crucial move here, the leap that must be made is to open up to the idea that perhaps your beliefs on any given situation aren't true. Perhaps you are living in the confines of your mind's own false projections, and in the recognition of this, there comes a new perspective which is almost always more compassionate and humble. Think of the practices laid out here, meditation and questioning your assumptions, as an investment that will pay dividends for the remainder of your life. Because, when you go through this entire process, when you write down your answers and look at them a bit more objectively, the potential for an internal shift arises. Repeated consistently overtime leads to a shift in the standard from which you view yourself and the world. When we let go of the labeling and judging of other people, when we stop assuming the future, living up to an impossible ideal, and taking every interaction personally as an assertion about ourselves, things really start to open up and a persisting clarity ensues. 
And so, the long-term ramifications of cultivating more peace of mind are countless. Yes, there is greater productivity and efficiency but at the core lies an ease. An ease that permeates all areas of your life and lets you just simply be. To be yourself and accept or at least understand what it is that that is taking place within and all around you. And from my perspective, that is something worth the time. That is something worth the upfront investment and in the long run, sure it means your lifestyle will change but if you take the work here seriously and develop some ambition for growth, you will eventually move in whatever direction you need to go. 
And so, as I said in the beginning, everything comes down to how we want to feel, and its important to keep that in mind. For whatever reason, we've been led to believe that we need certain conditions in and around us to make us content and have never been shown or told that there was a direct path. Our quality of life is dependent on the perspective and awareness we bring to a situation; if those evolve and grow in scope, everything changes. So, utilize the tools laid out here. Meditate and question your experience, using the attached worksheet as a guide, preferably in a journal or something similar. When you write these things out, and sit down to observe yourself, you can step outside of your thoughts and see them as the ridiculous assertions that they are. It's quite a miraculous thing, and you begin to see yourself in a truer light; something that is so helpful and actually quite profound, but more on that later. 
If you enjoyed this video/and or podcast please subscribe and hit the like button for me. If you feel so inclined please leave a rating and/or review, as that really helps other people find the show. Share it with someone you think would benefit from it and come take a look at my website, memeandmeaning.com, where you can download the actionable worksheet for this episode and the many more to come. Until next time, thank you so much. Know what you want and what it takes to get it. Practice the action steps shared here, and make it a great week. 
