---
layout: post
title: 'Test'
link: '#thy-purpose-not-life-purpose'
image: 'https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5a/Rabbits_playing_and_eating_outside_their_burrow._Etching_by_Wellcome_V0021563.jpg'
alt-image: 'Rabbits playing and eating outside their burrow. Etching by W-S Howitt, ca 1798.'
photographer: 'W-S Howitt'
category: Systems
description: "For there is this ebb and flow in nature. We must push our luck and venture to retrieve that which will build us up before the next wave crashes down. Nothing else provides the greatest gift we can muster: meaning: the reason for being despite all its comings and goings."
---

The tension swings as it always has between the conservative and progressive forces of the universe.

With a normal distribution, rabbits will vary in the distance they travel from their burrow, proportional to the level of fear and risk that they can tolerate.

Most are content in the middle ground, usually minding themselves and failing to see why the extremes of their stock venture to either the border of the burrow or the border of the boundary.

Some rabbits cling to the burrow, halfway in and halfway out, just enough to scrounge enough underbrush until tomorrow, and perhaps for good reason: that nature which feeds you simultaneously plays you as the feed for some other wretched creature. Why risk the descent?

On the other end of the spectrum lie the rest of the rabbits, usually a very few. These are the wonderer's, the courageous, or perhaps just the wishful thinkers. They venture to such a point where the burrow is no longer even visible. Out there beyond the mound, often alone and often locked in the sights of nature's teeth. "But perhaps I may find us a safer, more fitting shelter - maybe more food. How are we to move forward in this world if we fail to resurrect the order from the outskirts of our knowledge? Sure, we don't know what's out there but just as it may be dangerous, it is also promising..."

As dusk approaches, they all scurry back, at least most of them. They bicker and reproach each other over the decisions and lives they have all chosen to lead. The middle seeks rest, but the extremes toil over what is reasonable and what is not. 

"Why risk such foolishness, we are content and fine where we are?"

"Why risk such stagnancy? We can advance and find better opportunities elsewhere. Besides, sooner or later coyotes will find us where we lay and destroy what we have built anyhow."

Both are correct and yet incomplete. The greatest failure is to miss the fact that both are needed if the collision is to exist into the coming ages. 

For there is this ebb and flow in nature. We must push our luck and venture to retrieve that which will build us up before the next wave crashes down on us. This is the eternal story. Not an evil one, and not a just one, but a cosmic one. One that provides the greatest gift we can muster: meaning: the reason for being despite all its comings and goings.

In understanding the forces at play, may we hold each other with more compassion? They are needed as you are needed and through recognizing such we have a chance at striking the compromise that is the goldy locks zone. 