---
layout: post
title: 'Update - July 2018'
link: '#update-july-2018'
date: 2018-07-21
image: '../img/post-images/anatomyheart.png'
alt-image: 'Painting by Enrique Simonet y Lombardo,'
photographer: 'Enrique Simonet y Lombardo,'
category: [Philosophy,Psychology]
description: 'An update as to the purpose of Meme and Meaning.'
published: true
---
It has been a bit over a year since I began this endeavor with Meme and Meaning. Initially, and for the better part of the time thus far, the aim was to connect with, and aid other people, grow an audience, and "make something of it." An aim like that has both good and vain intentions to it, as it is great to help people and perhaps inspire greater aspirations in them, but at the same time, one's ego would be remiss if it didn't admit the narcissism inherent in such an endeavor. 
<br>
<br>
As of now, I have come to the conclusion that this project is now for a different purpose. It is now primarily, and perhaps solely, for me. A documentation of my life and ideas as I age so that I may sort out precisely what I think, believe, and suspect; and so that I may reflect on all that can be revealed from my previous recollections. 
<br>
<br>
In all, I feel good about this decision. There is an undercurrent of fear in almost anything I do it seems, and I wouldn't doubt that there is a bit of reluctance and renunciation so that I don't have to face the perceived turmoil and judgment of continuing along the path I originally set out on. 
<br>
<br>
On a very serious level, however, I don't feel that I am adequately at the point where I have anything of value to say, or if I do, I am not yet the person responsible enough to say it. I do think that such a stage is possible and indeed valuable though. Maybe it does take a bit of arrogance to believe that you have anything of value to say in the first place, but I think that is a misnomer. I think in the most surreal and meaningful moments of one's life, and in the light of raw, existential humility, the intentions of anyone speaking advice are genuine, loving, and real. I think there are people in this world, who, having been through all they have been through, having read all they have read, and having lived all they have lived, have something to say on matters of strife and struggle amidst our shared condition. 
<br>
<br>
I'm not sure that anyone has anything of absolute truth to say on matters of right and wrong, but I think there is considerable truth in the words of those who have struggled with such questions in the first place. Thinking is hard; it comes flawed instinctively only a bit better with years of training. The question is whether or not it is complete, and if it is not, at what point does it become useless?
<br>
<br>
This is now a documentation of my life, and in changing the aim of this, I feel a great burden and resistance lifted off my shoulders. If I have children one day, perhaps they will gain something of value from this as well, and in that sense, this is also for them. 
<br>
<br>
Though it has not always been evident in my actions, the central value of myself and my relationship to reality has not changed. The mystery and yearning to reside there in hopes of learning something have remained at the forefront of my most genuine expression. 
<br>
<br>
It is now time that I begin to dive deep into what I really think, and if I think that 'thinking' itself is worth the trouble. This is now a coalition of psychological and philosophical resources that I can and will draw upon. It is now a collection of reflections as imperfect as I.
<br>
<br>
Since the beginning, and in continuation now, I have never claimed to have the full story. I am only trying my best, and that is something which I have come to be unapologetically content with as I stumble my way to a little less ignorance. 



